Social Media
What do I mean by social media? What is not?
This is a tough distinction to make indeed. A social media platform is formally defined as a web or mobile application where you can do social networking, in other words where you can meet people with similar interests, connect with people you already know and be social. Along these lines, platforms like Facebook or Instagram or even Snapchat can be considered as Social Media. But what about messaging apps like Whatsapp or Telegram? Should they be considered as social media? Well, there’s some debate it, but I think they are because even though choose who you talk to and the whole chat is private, but still a component of social creeps in by the kind of media and messages you share, something I’ll touch upon a bit later. And then there’s this concept of groups, status and channels which is as close to social media as it gets.
Still, a lot of chats with your close friends and family can only be considered as much social media as much can be a phone call.

Heads Up! I dislike social media and consider it really as a menace to the actual human interactions and state of mind. So since I am a hater of social media let me first start by exploring the pros that social media does offer and how it helps us as a human society and kind.

The main benefits attributes which come instinctively to mind include connectivity, reachability, awareness, maintaining relationships which otherwise would have been hard to maintain[1], expressing your opinions, getting others opinions, source of news[2], entertainment using primarily memes, games, watching and participating in debates and challenges. To add a societal improvement aspect to all this there are a variety and plethora of examples on how social media has helped people from otherwise disadvantage background to raise their voice [3], or help raise other people’s voice. Social media has indeed helped gather funds for many social initiatives [4].
Bottom line told, is social media helps idea travel and faster. And it helps people get a sense of empowerment or at least claims to.
But before I delve into the negative impacts and the ethical questions that circle the discussions related to social media. Let's look at a brief history of social media and the reason behind the almost meteoric rise of social media.
Let me categorize this discussion into three parts,firstly I’ll discuss why it was born, why did it took off and then why did it stick.
The birth
According to the definition that I set up at the beginning internet forums[5] should be considered as one of the first social media, their growth was still limited, but that was primarily due to  the poor infrastructure available at that time. Other instances of social media like Orkut and Facebook grew out as a tool to network with people you might connect with. 
The takeoff
Social media took off and stick for pretty much the same reasons because of it did connect people, what it became afterwards is a different story but it did help people discuss and connect. Also, it helped people see what others are doing, give them sort of a sense of control. Social media helped people say what they couldn’t otherwise, connect with people who share the same ideology but are miles apart. And then there’s the one feature which clearly appealed to our need and wants for approval from other people.  
The stickiness
Simple, because it caters to a host of human instincts and tries to satisfy them. Also, using it releases the chemical which is responsible for the motivational component of your body’s reward-motivated behaviour, Dopamine. The ease of encountering something good randomly caters our brain’s reward mechanism and it makes it believe that it is, in fact, gonna get something better, almost. 
Three types of reason:
Behaviour and cognition
Social
Self and Identity
Ease
Herd

When what happened online starts to dominate your offline chat 


